flexdeploy/flexdeploy-connector.md, before:

**Introduction**



![Picture2](./images/flexdeploy_pic2.png =500x500)

**Step 1:** Provision ADWC plus Install and Configure Oracle Client

1. Provision Autonomous Data Warehouse Cloud (ADWC) and download the [corresponding credentials.zip file](?lab=wallet), to the system that will have the FlexDeploy installation. For the Oracle documentation to provision ADWC click here. If needed, refer to [Downloading Client Credentials (Wallets).](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/autonomous-data-warehouse-cloud/user/connect-download-wallet.html#GUID-B06202D2-0597-41AA-9481-3B174F75D4B1)

2. All connections to Autonomous Data Warehouse Cloud use certificate-based authentication and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). Uncompress credentials.zip file into a secure folder.
3. Download the [Oracle JDBC-THIN drivers](?lab=jdbc-thin) to the system where FlexDeploy is installed.

**Step 2.** Install FlexDeploy

To install FlexDeploy software please refer to the Install [Documentation](https://flexagon.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FD51/overview).

Step 3: Configuring FlexDeploy to connect with ADWC

- Configuration depends on the application server being used. Refer to FlexDeploy Install

  Documentation for details on each application server.

- Example of connecting Tomcat to ADWC:

  a. Install 18.3 [JDBC-THIN drivers]((?lab=jdbc-thin) by removing ojdbc6dms.jar and putting the 18.3 jar files in the apache-tomcat-flexdeploy\lib directory

  b. Add this to the CATALINA_OPTS line of the setenv.bat file:

  ​	i. [Doracle.net](http://doracle.net/).tns_admin=D:\tns\_admin

  ​	ii. Note*** Directory is the location of the uncompressed credentials.zip from 1.2

​		c. Set the JDBC URL in the context.xml file to look like this:

        i. url="jdbc:oracle:thin:@flexagon_high"

        ii. Note *** The name should match an entry in the tnsnames.ora file.

Commit message:

updated with intro wallet paragraph

flexdeploy/flexdeploy-connector.md, after:

**Introduction**

This guide shows you how to configure FlexDeploy connectivity to Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB). It describes how to connect Oracle Autonomous Database using the wallet or mTLS.  If you want to connect without the wallet click [here](https://oracle-samples.github.io/adb-connectors/common/tls-no-wallet/workshops/freetier/).

![Picture2](./images/flexdeploy_pic2.png =500x500)

**Step 1:** Provision ADWC plus Install and Configure Oracle Client

1. Provision Autonomous Data Warehouse Cloud (ADWC) and download the [corresponding credentials.zip file](?lab=wallet), to the system that will have the FlexDeploy installation. For the Oracle documentation to provision ADWC click here. If needed, refer to [Downloading Client Credentials (Wallets).](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/autonomous-data-warehouse-cloud/user/connect-download-wallet.html#GUID-B06202D2-0597-41AA-9481-3B174F75D4B1)

2. All connections to Autonomous Data Warehouse Cloud use certificate-based authentication and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). Uncompress credentials.zip file into a secure folder.
3. Download the [Oracle JDBC-THIN drivers](?lab=jdbc-thin) to the system where FlexDeploy is installed.

**Step 2.** Install FlexDeploy

To install FlexDeploy software please refer to the Install [Documentation](https://flexagon.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FD51/overview).

Step 3: Configuring FlexDeploy to connect with ADWC

- Configuration depends on the application server being used. Refer to FlexDeploy Install

  Documentation for details on each application server.

- Example of connecting Tomcat to ADWC:

  a. Install 18.3 [JDBC-THIN drivers]((?lab=jdbc-thin) by removing ojdbc6dms.jar and putting the 18.3 jar files in the apache-tomcat-flexdeploy\lib directory

  b. Add this to the CATALINA_OPTS line of the setenv.bat file:

  ​	i. [Doracle.net](http://doracle.net/).tns_admin=D:\tns\_admin

  ​	ii. Note*** Directory is the location of the uncompressed credentials.zip from 1.2

​		c. Set the JDBC URL in the context.xml file to look like this:

        i. url="jdbc:oracle:thin:@flexagon_high"
    
        ii. Note *** The name should match an entry in the tnsnames.ora file.
